# Lecture 2

## Bytecode
* Python syntax compiles to bytecode. Let's see what some simple code looks like:
    * Note that this is what is stored in .pyc files. It is a cache of the compiled bytecode.
    * Also note that everything that parses will compile to bytecode. There still might be syntax errors that are caught at run time.
```
x = 2
y = 3
print(x + y)
```
* Run this through `dis` (e.g. python3 -m dis filename)
```
  1           0 LOAD_CONST               0 (2)
              2 STORE_NAME               0 (x)

  2           4 LOAD_CONST               1 (3)
              6 STORE_NAME               1 (y)

  3           8 LOAD_NAME                2 (print)
             10 LOAD_NAME                0 (x)
             12 LOAD_NAME                1 (y)
             14 BINARY_ADD
             16 CALL_FUNCTION            1
             18 POP_TOP
             20 LOAD_CONST               2 (None)
             22 RETURN_VALUE
```
* What does this mean?
    * First col - linenumbers that caused this bytecode to be generated
    * second col - offset (in bytes) of the opcode in the bytecode.
    * Third col - name of opcode
    * Fourth col - the location of argument, not on the stack but in the list of local variables. Not completely clear on this...
    * Fifth col - the value of the argument

* `LOAD_` pushes something onto the stack (e.g. 2, print).
* `STORE_` pops something off the stack and stores it (x -> (whatever just got popped))
* `BINARY_ADD` pops 2 (binary!) things off the stack and adds them
* Note that when we "push something onto the stack" or "store it as a variable" we don't necessarily copy memory. We just add a reference. When popping we just subtract a reference.
* `CALL_FUNCTION` doesn't appear to pop something off the stack so we `POP_TOP`?
* `LOAD` a none and return that (by default python returns none)


## Main loop
* Code lives in `Python/ceval.c`.
* Important pieces: `_PyEval_EvalFrameDefault` is the main interpreter loop which contains the `main_loop` - infinite loop.
* This function takes a `PyFrameObject` and returns a `PyObject`.
* A frame is ~a frame in a stack.

### Stuff to ignore
* tstate - debugging/timing

### Setup
* First part of this function is a lot of setup. Set up stack pointers, macros etc
* Looks like each frame has its own stack. That kinda makes sense?
* Pull the things we need into local variables and sanity check

### Main loop
* Runs through the bytecode one opcode at a time and has a massive switch statement to handle each opcode.
* 2000 lines of different options in a switch.
* Comes out via `return_or_yield`. Error exit in `exception_unwind`
* Should make sure that there is nothing left of the stack - see in `exception_unwind`.

### A single opcode
* What does BINARY_ADD do?
* Define `left` and `right` which on the stack.
* Decide how to sum - concatenate if they are strings, add if they are numbers.
* Decrement the reference for both `left` and `right`.
* Stick the result on the stack.
* Dispatch (move onto next opcode).

### The next opcode
* How do we get the next opcode/argument?
* `NEXTOPARG` is a macro that creates `opcode` and `oparg` local variables.
* If you are tracing you can check if `HAS_ARG(opcode)`. Ops have have args have opcodes > than some number. You don't need to check if opcode have args because in their part of the switch statement the code should know how many args they have and can just get the right number.
