# Lecture 3

# Frames
* http://www.pythontutor.com/visualize.html#mode=display is a cool thing
    * It is a really cool thing...
    * https://goo.gl/RKZuwu
* This lesson appears to mostly be talking about the function stack in the interpreter.
* Check out `test_compile2.py` to see the bytecode for some functions

## Functions
* In loading a function, the bytecode looks like this.
* You load the code object. This is what the functions will do.
* You load the name.
    * To load things there is a hashtable look up of "function_name" or "variable_name". And there will be different hash tables for different frames (because "x" means something different inside and outside the function)!
* You `MAKE_FUNCTION`. This binds the code object to the name but also creates the environment that the function lives in. Think of closures - the function has some local state the is persistent. It also need to know about the globals that exist. This is complicated, I should learn this better cbx)
    * The structure of the code object (which is part of the function) is defined in `code.h`.
* `CALL_FUNCTION` calls the function. This seems important.

### Call function
* See `frameobject.h` which defines the PyFrameObject that is what the main loop is called with
    * Frame stack is a linked list so each frame points back to the previous one.
        * When the frame terminates, it passes things back to the previous one.
    * Each frame has a list of locals/globals etc. Everything it needs
    * Each frame has its own valuestack. I don't understand this.
* So, what the main loop does is, given a frame (with the code it contains and locals/globals etc) it executes it and returns the value to whoever called you.
* Hierarchy: Frame is a runtime thing that contains a function, which contains a code object (+ environment), which contains the bytecode (+xxx).
* Back to CALL_FUNCTION opcode in `ceval.h`
    * which calls `call_function` which is lower down in that file
        * this sets up the stack and then does different things depending on what type of func we are calling
            * C functions we just run
            * There are other options (methods)
            * Normal PyFunction, we just `_PyFunction_FastCallKeywords` which is in `Objects/call.c`
                * Which sends us back to `ceval.c` and `_PyEval_EvalCodeWithName` which eventually creates the frame and somehow gets us back to the eval loop.

* That got nested, lets do a simple thing here: `ceval.c:main_loop -> CALL_FUNCTION (opcode) -> call_function -> _PyFunction_FastCallKeywords (Objects/call.c) -> _PyEval_EvalCodeWithName (ceval.c) -> main_loop (via a thing that checks that this is the function we want to use in Python/pystate.c` .
