# Lecture 4

PyObject

See `Include/object.h`, `Objects/object.c`


## Everything is an Object
See https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html

* In python, everything is an object. Unlike C where an integer is just 4 bytes (or 8 whatever), in python it is a big object.
    * Way to see this, just do dir(x) where x is an integer. See all the methods/properties.
    * These methods implement basic stuff e.g. `longadd` in the `longobject.c` adds longs.
    * They unwrap the object, get the value, do the thing, stick the result back in an object and returns that to you.
    * This is (one of the reasons) why python is so much slower than C.
* Why???
    * ???

## Shared properties
All objects have:
    * An id(x). In cPython it is the address value. But that is an implementation detail. It is just a unique ID.
        * cPython guarantees that once allocated an obj won't move. Interesting.
        * This is actually very interesting. See comment in object.h - `Objects that hold variable sized data contain pointers to the location of that data`.
        * Interesting point about GC - after GC you can't compact your memory. I assume new allocations try to fill the holes.
    * A type: str/int/myType
    * A value
    * A refcount: This is an implementation detail of cPython

## Base Object
    * Base PyObject is really simple - just a refcount and a type.
    * Other objects subclass it. (don't really understand this)

## PyVarObject
* Basically a PyObject but also contains a length of the variable part

## Structural Subtyping
    * C doesn't have classes/subclasses. How do we have our PyLong (or whatever) be a 'subclass' of the base PyObject?
    * You just ensure that the structure of the objects are similar. You ensure that if a PyObjects looks like: pointer (to type), int (refcount), a PyIntObject starts with the same two fields and then has extra fields after it.
    * I think this still works in C because when you do pyobject.type, it just knows to look for the n bytes at offset y. And that is correct for the PyIntObject too because the start of the struct is the same.


## Example Types
    * FloatObject is just a base object with a double for the value! That is it. Very simple

## Functions that work on an PyObject
    * E.g. PyObject_Str. Which stringifies things so they can be printed
    * See the line where we jump to `tp_str`. This is a function defined on the class (not on the instance). Each class need to implement a stringifier function.
    * **Everything goes through the default PyObject func that then delegates to the specific code for that type**
