# Lecture 6

Code objects, function objects, closures.


## Looking inside functions
Let's assume we have a function `f`. Also, note that this is different in python3 vs python2.
* type(f) is function
* https://docs.python.org/3/library/inspect.html is useful for what follows
* f.__code__ gives you the code object which contains
    * co_code: the bytecode
    * co_consts: constants defined in the func
    * ... many other things
* f.__globals__ is a dict of things in the global scope
* ... many other things


## Code Object
* Check out code.h - this defines the PyCodeObject which contains the info that we have been accessing in python above.

## Code Type
* Check out codeobject.c and find PyCode_Type.
* This shows you which C function implements which python method. E.g. to see how a codeobject is printed, find the tp_repr function. This is true for all types (see floatobject.c and PyFloat_Type etc)
* Compiling creates the code object - bytecode. But you only get the function object when you call it.

## Func Type
* funcobject.c/h
* Function contains the code/globals/name/closure!/doc
* See PyFunction_New in the .c
    * PyFunction_New(PyObject *code, PyObject *globals)
    * Function is created with code and globals, it then reserves stuff for itself (e.g. pulls out the doc (if it exists) which is the first constant and of type unicode.) More importantly does stuff (what?) to support closures.
* PyFunction_Type has a tp_call attribute which describes what happens in a function call

## Executing functions
* There is a bytecode for CALL_FUNCTION. Go there in ceval.c
* This calls call_functions. Also in ceval.c.
    * This does a bunch of stuff if the func is a method but eventually we get to...
* _PyFunction_FastCallKeywords (in call.c) which builds up the required things (closure, stack, globals etc) and..
* Sends us back to ceval.c with _PyEval_EvalCodeWithName which builds and then calls PyEval_EvalFrameEx to evaluate the frame (which goes back to the main_loop)!


## Closures
* imagine we have code that looks like:
```
x = 10
def foo(x):
    def bar(y):
        print(x + y) # this x will be the x that was passed to foo, not the global
    return bar
f = foo(1)
g = foo(2)
```
* Run this in pythontutor (https://goo.gl/BaWpf5)
* f will be a function object (bar) but that bar keeps track of its parent frame. So we can't clean up the frame from the calls to foo because they are still referenced from the return value of the call. (Apparently it might optimize it and clean up some of it)
* Actually you can look in `f.__closure__[0].cell_contents` and that is where x is stored with value 1 (or 2 for g) (so you can throw away the enclosing frame you just keep the variables around)
* Check out funcobject.h and the func_closure field.
